README.md, before:

workedon
========

[![image](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/workedon.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/workedon)
[![Python versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/workedon.svg?logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://pypi.org/project/workedon/)
[![Tests status](https://github.com/viseshrp/workedon/workflows/Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/viseshrp/workedon/actions?query=workflow%3ATest)
[![Coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/viseshrp/workedon/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/viseshrp/workedon)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/viseshrp/workedon/blob/develop/LICENSE)
[![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/workedon)](https://pepy.tech/project/workedon)

Work tracking from your shell.

![demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/viseshrp/workedon/develop/demo.gif)

Why build this
--------------

I believe tracking your work is an important way of measuring productivity
and is a habit that is very helpful to develop. But the thing about habits
is - if they aren’t easy and accessible, you will eventually stop doing
them - just like going to a gym that is 40 minutes away :) I tried
different methods to log my work and failed. Google Docs, iCloud
Notes, Notepad++, Sticky Notes, etc. I really wanted a way of tracking
with very little effort so I could make this a habit.
It's pretty obvious that we all spend most of our day on the terminal.
Wouldn’t it be nice if I wrote a feature, committed it and then logged
what I did right then and there without a second thought?
What if I could also search this based on date so I could look at,
for example, how productive I was in the past week?

`workedon` is another attempt of mine to make work logging a habit and
improve my productivity.

How it works
------------

This tool is useful in two ways - for logging work and fetching logged work.
The implementation is very simple. Work is logged in the form of
`workedon <text> @ <date>`or just `workedon <text>`
(which uses the current date/time). There is a custom parser that reads the
content, splits it at the `@` to a work and a date component and then uses
the awesome `dateparser` library to parse human-readable dates into datetime
objects. This is then saved in a SQLite database
([File location varies](https://github.com/platformdirs/platformdirs) based
on OS). Logged work can be fetched using multiple options that accept similar
human-readable date/times. The same parser is used again to parse into datetime
objects which are used to query the database. The output uses the current
shell's pager to display a paged list similar to `git log`
(your output may slightly vary based on your shell).

Installation
------------

``` {.bash}
pip install workedon
```

Requirements
------------

- Python 3.7+

Features
--------

- Log work from your shell in plain text with human-readable dates/times.
  - The date/time is optional. The default is the current date/time.
  - The `@` character is used to separate the text from the
  date/time.
- Fetch logged work with human-readable dates/times.
- Familiar Git-like interface.
- Filter, sort, delete, format and display logged work on your shell.
- Set date/time format of the output through settings.

Settings
--------

Whenever `workedon` is run for the first time, a settings file named
`wonfile.py` is generated at the user's configuration directory, which
varies based on OS. To find out, run:

``` {.bash}
workedon --print-settings-path
```

Settings are strings used to configure the behavior of `workedon`.
The currently available settings are:

- `DATE_FORMAT` : Sets the date format of the output.
  - Must be a valid Python [strftime](https://strftime.org/) string.
  - Option: `--date-format <value>`
  - Environment variable: `WORKEDON_DATE_FORMAT`
- `TIME_FORMAT` : Sets the time format of the output.
  - Must be a valid Python [strftime](https://strftime.org/) string.
  - Option: `--time-format <value>`
  - Environment variable: `WORKEDON_TIME_FORMAT`
- `DATETIME_FORMAT` : Sets the date and time format of the output.
  - Must be a valid Python [strftime](https://strftime.org/) string.
  - Setting this overrides `DATE_FORMAT` and `TIME_FORMAT`.
  - Option: `--datetime-format <value>`
  - Environment variable: `WORKEDON_DATETIME_FORMAT`

Order of priority is Option > Environment variable > Setting.

To find your current settings, run:

``` {.bash}
workedon --print-settings
```

Check the default settings
[here](https://github.com/viseshrp/workedon/blob/develop/workedon/default_settings.py).

Usage
-----

<!-- [[[cog
import cog
from workedon import cli
from click.testing import CliRunner
runner = CliRunner()
result = runner.invoke(cli.main, ["--help"])
out = result.output.replace("Usage: main", "Usage: workedon")
result = runner.invoke(cli.what, ["--help"])
what_out = result.output
cog.out(
    "``` {{.bash}}\n"
    "$ workedon --help\n"
    "{}\n"
    "$ workedon what --help\n"
    "{}"
    "```".format(out, what_out)
)
]]] -->
``` {.bash}
$ workedon --help
Usage: workedon [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

  Work tracking from your shell.

  Example usages:
  1. Logging work:
  workedon painting the garage
  workedon studying for the SAT @ June 23 2010
  workedon pissing my wife off @ 2pm yesterday

  2. Fetching work:
  workedon what
  workedon what --from "2pm yesterday" --to "9am today"
  workedon what --today
  workedon what --past-month

Options:
  -v, --version  Show the version and exit.
  -h, --help     Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  workedon*  Specify what you worked on, with optional date/time.
  what       Fetch and display logged work.

$ workedon what --help
Usage: what [OPTIONS]

  Fetch and display logged work.

  If no options are provided, work
  from the past week is returned.

Options:
  -r, --reverse           Reverse order while sorting.
  -n, --count INTEGER     Number of entries to return.
  -s, --last              Fetch the last thing you worked on
  -i, --id TEXT           id to fetch with.
  -f, --from TEXT         Start date-time to filter with.
  -t, --to TEXT           End date-time to filter with.
  --since TEXT            Fetch work done since a specified date-time in the
                          past.
  -d, --past-day          Fetch work done in the past 24 hours.
  -w, --past-week         Fetch work done in the past week.
  -m, --past-month        Fetch work done in the past month.
  -y, --past-year         Fetch work done in the past year.
  -e, --yesterday         Fetch work done yesterday.
  -o, --today             Fetch work done today.
  --on TEXT               Fetch work done on a particular date/day.
  --at TEXT               Fetch work done at a particular time on a particular
                          date/day.
  --delete                Delete fetched work.
  -g, --no-page           Don't page the output.
  -l, --text-only         Output the work log text only.
  --date-format TEXT      Sets the date format of the output. Must be a valid
                          Python strftime string.
  --time-format TEXT      Sets the time format of the output. Must be a valid
                          Python strftime string.
  --datetime-format TEXT  Sets the datetime format of the output. Must be a
                          valid Python strftime string.
  --help                  Show this message and exit.
```
<!-- [[[end]]] -->

Limitations
-----------

- Your input is limited by your shell. Certain characters like the single
  quote `'` behave differently. Put your content within double quotes
  to get around special characters.

  For example:

  ``` {.bash}
  workedon "repairing my wife's phone"
  ```

- The [date parser](https://github.com/scrapinghub/dateparser) which is
  used may misinterpret some irregular phrases of date/time, but mostly
  does great.

- There are some reserved keywords that are used as subcommands and
  cannot be used as the first word of your log's content:
  - `workedon`
  - `what`

  You can use double quotes here as well to get around this.

  For example, this will not work:

  ``` {.bash}
  workedon what my wife asked me to do @ 3pm 3 days ago
  ```

  This is fine:

  ``` {.bash}
  workedon "what my wife asked me to do" @ 3pm 3 days ago
  ```

Credits
-------

- [dateparser](https://github.com/scrapinghub/dateparser), for an
    amazing date parser. This project would not be possible without it.
- [peewee](https://github.com/coleifer/peewee), for a nice and
   tiny ORM to interact with sqlite.
- [Click](https://click.palletsprojects.com), for making writing CLI
    tools a complete pleasure.
- [jrnl](https://github.com/jrnl-org/jrnl),
    [fck](https://github.com/nvbn/thefuck) and
    [Simon Willison](https://github.com/simonw/sqlite-utils/) for some
    inspiration.

Commit message:

add setting to specify user timezone (#38)

README.md, after:

workedon
========

[![image](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/workedon.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/workedon)
[![Python versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/workedon.svg?logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://pypi.org/project/workedon/)
[![Tests status](https://github.com/viseshrp/workedon/workflows/Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/viseshrp/workedon/actions?query=workflow%3ATest)
[![Coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/viseshrp/workedon/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/viseshrp/workedon)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/viseshrp/workedon/blob/develop/LICENSE)
[![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/workedon)](https://pepy.tech/project/workedon)

Work tracking from your shell.

![demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/viseshrp/workedon/develop/demo.gif)

Why build this
--------------

I believe tracking your work is an important way of measuring productivity
and is a habit that is very helpful to develop. But the thing about habits
is - if they aren’t easy and accessible, you will eventually stop doing
them - just like going to a gym that is 40 minutes away :) I tried
different methods to log my work and failed. Google Docs, iCloud
Notes, Notepad++, Sticky Notes, etc. I really wanted a way of tracking
with very little effort so I could make this a habit.
It's pretty obvious that we all spend most of our day on the terminal.
Wouldn’t it be nice if I wrote a feature, committed it and then logged
what I did right then and there without a second thought?
What if I could also search this based on date so I could look at,
for example, how productive I was in the past week?

`workedon` is another attempt of mine to make work logging a habit and
improve my productivity.

How it works
------------

This tool is useful in two ways - for logging work and fetching logged work.
The implementation is very simple. Work is logged in the form of
`workedon <text> @ <date>`or just `workedon <text>`
(which uses the current date/time). There is a custom parser that reads the
content, splits it at the `@` to a work and a date component and then uses
the awesome `dateparser` library to parse human-readable dates into datetime
objects. This is then saved in a SQLite database
([File location varies](https://github.com/platformdirs/platformdirs) based
on OS). Logged work can be fetched using multiple options that accept similar
human-readable date/times. The same parser is used again to parse into datetime
objects which are used to query the database. The output uses the current
shell's pager to display a paged list similar to `git log`
(your output may slightly vary based on your shell).

Installation
------------

``` {.bash}
pip install workedon
```

Requirements
------------

- Python 3.7+

Features
--------

- Log work from your shell in plain text with human-readable dates/times.
  - The date/time is optional. The default is the current date/time.
  - The `@` character is used to separate the text from the
  date/time.
- Fetch logged work with human-readable dates/times.
- Familiar Git-like interface.
- Filter, sort, delete, format and display logged work on your shell.
- Set date/time format of the output through settings.

Settings
--------

Whenever `workedon` is run for the first time, a settings file named
`wonfile.py` is generated at the user's configuration directory, which
varies based on OS. To find out, run:

``` {.bash}
workedon --print-settings-path
```

Settings are strings used to configure the behavior of `workedon`.
The currently available settings are:

- `DATE_FORMAT` : Sets the date format of the output.
  - Must be a valid Python [strftime](https://strftime.org/) string.
  - Option: `--date-format <value>`
  - Environment variable: `WORKEDON_DATE_FORMAT`
- `TIME_FORMAT` : Sets the time format of the output.
  - Must be a valid Python [strftime](https://strftime.org/) string.
  - Option: `--time-format <value>`
  - Environment variable: `WORKEDON_TIME_FORMAT`
- `DATETIME_FORMAT` : Sets the date and time format of the output.
  - Must be a valid Python [strftime](https://strftime.org/) string.
  - Setting this overrides `DATE_FORMAT` and `TIME_FORMAT`.
  - Option: `--datetime-format <value>`
  - Environment variable: `WORKEDON_DATETIME_FORMAT`
- `TIME_ZONE` : Sets the time zone of the output.
  - Must be a valid
    [timezone string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones).
  - Default is the auto-detected timezone using the
    [tzlocal](https://github.com/regebro/tzlocal) library.
  - Option: `--time-zone <value>`
  - Environment variable: `WORKEDON_TIME_ZONE`

Order of priority is Option > Environment variable > Setting.

To find your current settings, run:

``` {.bash}
workedon --print-settings
```

Check the default settings
[here](https://github.com/viseshrp/workedon/blob/develop/workedon/default_settings.py).

Usage
-----

<!-- [[[cog
import cog
from workedon import cli
from click.testing import CliRunner
runner = CliRunner()
result = runner.invoke(cli.main, ["--help"])
out = result.output.replace("Usage: main", "Usage: workedon")
result = runner.invoke(cli.what, ["--help"])
what_out = result.output
cog.out(
    "``` {{.bash}}\n"
    "$ workedon --help\n"
    "{}\n"
    "$ workedon what --help\n"
    "{}"
    "```".format(out, what_out)
)
]]] -->
``` {.bash}
$ workedon --help
Usage: workedon [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

  Work tracking from your shell.

  Example usages:
  1. Logging work:
  workedon painting the garage
  workedon studying for the SAT @ June 23 2010
  workedon pissing my wife off @ 2pm yesterday

  2. Fetching work:
  workedon what
  workedon what --from "2pm yesterday" --to "9am today"
  workedon what --today
  workedon what --past-month

Options:
  -v, --version  Show the version and exit.
  -h, --help     Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  workedon*  Specify what you worked on, with optional date/time.
  what       Fetch and display logged work.

$ workedon what --help
Usage: what [OPTIONS]

  Fetch and display logged work.

  If no options are provided, work
  from the past week is returned.

Options:
  -r, --reverse           Reverse order while sorting.
  -n, --count INTEGER     Number of entries to return.
  -s, --last              Fetch the last thing you worked on
  -i, --id TEXT           id to fetch with.
  -f, --from TEXT         Start date-time to filter with.
  -t, --to TEXT           End date-time to filter with.
  --since TEXT            Fetch work done since a specified date-time in the
                          past.
  -d, --past-day          Fetch work done in the past 24 hours.
  -w, --past-week         Fetch work done in the past week.
  -m, --past-month        Fetch work done in the past month.
  -y, --past-year         Fetch work done in the past year.
  -e, --yesterday         Fetch work done yesterday.
  -o, --today             Fetch work done today.
  --on TEXT               Fetch work done on a particular date/day.
  --at TEXT               Fetch work done at a particular time on a particular
                          date/day.
  --delete                Delete fetched work.
  -g, --no-page           Don't page the output.
  -l, --text-only         Output the work log text only.
  --date-format TEXT      Sets the date format of the output. Must be a valid
                          Python strftime string.
  --time-format TEXT      Sets the time format of the output. Must be a valid
                          Python strftime string.
  --datetime-format TEXT  Sets the datetime format of the output. Must be a
                          valid Python strftime string.
  --time-zone TEXT        Sets the timezone of the output. Must be a valid
                          timezone string.
  --help                  Show this message and exit.
```
<!-- [[[end]]] -->

Limitations
-----------

- Your input is limited by your shell. Certain characters like the single
  quote `'` behave differently. Put your content within double quotes
  to get around special characters.

  For example:

  ``` {.bash}
  workedon "repairing my wife's phone"
  ```

- The [date parser](https://github.com/scrapinghub/dateparser) which is
  used may misinterpret some irregular phrases of date/time, but mostly
  does great.

- There are some reserved keywords that are used as subcommands and
  cannot be used as the first word of your log's content:
  - `workedon`
  - `what`

  You can use double quotes here as well to get around this.

  For example, this will not work:

  ``` {.bash}
  workedon what my wife asked me to do @ 3pm 3 days ago
  ```

  This is fine:

  ``` {.bash}
  workedon "what my wife asked me to do" @ 3pm 3 days ago
  ```

Credits
-------

- [dateparser](https://github.com/scrapinghub/dateparser), for an
    amazing date parser. This project would not be possible without it.
- [peewee](https://github.com/coleifer/peewee), for a nice and
   tiny ORM to interact with sqlite.
- [Click](https://click.palletsprojects.com), for making writing CLI
    tools a complete pleasure.
- [jrnl](https://github.com/jrnl-org/jrnl),
    [fck](https://github.com/nvbn/thefuck) and
    [Simon Willison](https://github.com/simonw/sqlite-utils/) for some
    inspiration.
